CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

> If you would like to update the docs, please see [the docs repo](https://github.com/etro-js/etro-js.github.io).

## Introduction

Thank you for considering contributing to Etro! There are many ways you can contribute to Etro, like creating issues for features or bugs, improving the docs or wiki, or writing the code for the library. This page covers how to make changes to the repository files (either code or jsdocs).

[Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/myrBsQ8Cht)

## Setting up your local environment

- You will need Git, Node, NPM (at least 7.x) and Firefox (for headless functional testing) installed.
- To get started, create your own fork of Etro. Then run
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/etro.git
  cd etro
  npm install
  npm test
  ```

## Making your changes

- Make some changes and update tests
- If you are writing code, the linter uses [StandardJS](https://standardjs.com/rules.html) for style conventions
- If you're adding or updating an effect:
  - Add your effect to **scripts/gen-effect-samples.html**
  - Run `npm run effects`
  - Briefly review the images in **spec/integration/assets/effect/**
- As you work, you can run
  ```
  npm run fix
  npm run build
  npm test
  ```

  to lint and compile the code and run the tests on them. Husky will run these commands automatically when you commit.
- Please commit to a new branch, not master

## Submitting your changes

- Before pushing to your fork, rebase (please avoid merging) to integrate your work with any new changes in the main repository
  ```
  git fetch upstream
  git rebase upstream/master
  ```
- Open a pull request from the branch in your fork to the main repository. If you changed any core functionality, make sure you explain your motives for those changes
- A large part of the submission process is receiving feedback on how you can improve you pull request. If you need to change your pull request, feel free to push more commits.

## Code overview

### Etro Overview

Check out [the user docs](https://etrojs.dev/docs/intro) for a high-level overview of Etro.

### Events

> Events were deprecated in v0.10.0 in favor of async methods with callbacks.

Events emitted by Etro objects use a [pub/sub system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Publish%E2%80%93subscribe_pattern). To emit an event, use `event.publish(target, type, event)`. For instance,

```js
event.publish(movie, 'movie.type.of.event', { additionalData: 'foo' })
```

That will notify all listeners of `movie` for event types `'movie'`, `'movie.type'`, `'movie.type.of'` and `'movie.type.of.event'`. To listen for an event, use `event.subscribe(target, type, listener)`, like

```js
event.subscribe(movie, 'movie.type', event => {
  console.log(event.target, event.type, event.additionalData) // should print the movie, 'movie.type.of.event', 'foo'
})
```

Commit message:

:construction_worker: Skip audio tests in GitHub Actions
Since the GitHub Actions runner does not have an audio device, and
creating a virtual one didn't work, only running integration tests
involving audio locally seems like a good idea for now.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

> If you would like to update the docs, please see [the docs repo](https://github.com/etro-js/etro-js.github.io).

## Introduction

Thank you for considering contributing to Etro! There are many ways you can contribute to Etro, like creating issues for features or bugs, improving the docs or wiki, or writing the code for the library. This page covers how to make changes to the repository files (either code or jsdocs).

[Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/myrBsQ8Cht)

## Setting up your local environment

- You will need Git, Node, NPM (at least 7.x) and Firefox (for headless functional testing) installed.
- To get started, create your own fork of Etro. Then run
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/etro.git
  cd etro
  npm install
  npm run test:unit
  npm run test:smoke
  npm run test:integration
  ```

## Making your changes

- Make some changes and update tests
- If you are writing code, the linter uses [StandardJS](https://standardjs.com/rules.html) for style conventions
- If you're adding or updating an effect:
  - Add your effect to **scripts/gen-effect-samples.html**
  - Run `npm run effects`
  - Briefly review the images in **spec/integration/assets/effect/**
- As you work, you can run
  ```
  npm run fix
  npm run build
  npm test:unit
  npm test:smoke
  npm test:integration
  ```

  to lint and compile the code and run the tests on them. Husky will run these commands automatically when you commit.
  - *Note: Unit tests validate the logic of the code in etro, with the DOM and any other external dependencies mocked. Because audio cannot be rendered in the GitHub Actions runner, the end-to-end tests are divided into two suites. All end-to-end tests that render any audio should be placed in **spec/integration/**. All end-to-end tests that do **not** require an audio device should be placed in **spec/smoke/**. The integration tests can only be run locally, but the other two suites can be run anywhere.*

- Please commit to a new branch, not master

## Submitting your changes

- Before pushing to your fork, rebase (please avoid merging) to integrate your work with any new changes in the main repository
  ```
  git fetch upstream
  git rebase upstream/master
  ```
- Open a pull request from the branch in your fork to the main repository. If you changed any core functionality, make sure you explain your motives for those changes
- A large part of the submission process is receiving feedback on how you can improve you pull request. If you need to change your pull request, feel free to push more commits.

## Code overview

### Etro Overview

Check out [the user docs](https://etrojs.dev/docs/intro) for a high-level overview of Etro.

### Events

> Events were deprecated in v0.10.0 in favor of async methods with callbacks.

Events emitted by Etro objects use a [pub/sub system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Publish%E2%80%93subscribe_pattern). To emit an event, use `event.publish(target, type, event)`. For instance,

```js
event.publish(movie, 'movie.type.of.event', { additionalData: 'foo' })
```

That will notify all listeners of `movie` for event types `'movie'`, `'movie.type'`, `'movie.type.of'` and `'movie.type.of.event'`. To listen for an event, use `event.subscribe(target, type, listener)`, like

```js
event.subscribe(movie, 'movie.type', event => {
  console.log(event.target, event.type, event.additionalData) // should print the movie, 'movie.type.of.event', 'foo'
})
```
